docs/index.rst, before:

Kullback-Leibler projections for Bayesian model selection
=========================================================

|Tests|
|Coverage|
|Black|
  
.. |Tests| image:: https://github.com/bambinos/kulprit/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg
    :target: https://github.com/bambinos/kulprit

.. |Coverage| image:: https://codecov.io/gh/bambinos/kulprit/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=SLJIK2O4C5 
    :target: https://codecov.io/gh/bambinos/kulprit

.. |Black| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg
    :target: https://github.com/ambv/black

Kulprit is under active development so use it with care. If you find any bugs or have any feature requests, please open an `issue <https://github.com/bambinos/kulprit/issues>`_ on GitHub.

Besides this documentation, we also recommend you to read `Advances in projection predictive inference <https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.15581>`_. The paper is not about Kulprit, but introduces the theory behind Kulprit and also provides some practical advice. You may also find this `guide <https://avehtari.github.io/modelselection/CV-FAQ.html>`_
on Cross-Validation and model selection is useful.

Installation
============

Kulprit requires a working Python interpreter (3.10+). We recommend installing Python and key numerical libraries using the `Anaconda Distribution <https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual#Downloads>`_, which has one-click installers available on all major platforms.

Assuming a standard Python environment is installed on your machine (including pip), Kulprit itself can be installed in one line using pip:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install kulprit


By default Kulprit performs a forward search, if you want to use Lasso (L1 search) you need to install `scikit-learn` package. You can install it using pip:

.. code-block:: bash
    
    pip install kulprit[lasso]

Alternatively, if you want the bleeding edge version of the package you can install it from GitHub:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install git+https://github.com/bambinos/kulprit.git


Dependencies
============

Kulprit is tested on Python 3.10+. Dependencies are listed in `pyproject.toml` and should all be installed by the Kulprit installer; no further action should be required.


Contributing
============

We welcome contributions from interested individuals or groups!
For information about contributing to Kulprit check out our instructions, policies, and guidelines `here <https://github.com/bambinos/kulprit/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md>`_.


Contributors
============

See the `GitHub contributor page <https://github.com/bambinos/kulprit/graphs/contributors>`_.


Citation
========

If you find Kulprit useful in your work, please cite the following paper:

.. code-block:: latex

    @misc{mclatchie2024,
        title={Advances in projection predictive inference}, 
        author={Yann McLatchie and S{\"o}lvi R{\"o}gnvaldsson and Frank Weber and Aki Vehtari},
        year={2024},
        eprint={2306.15581},
        archivePrefix={arXiv},
        primaryClass={stat.ME},
        url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.15581}, 
    }


Donations
============

If you want to support Kulprit financially, you can `make a donation <https://numfocus.org/donate-to-pymc>`_ to our sister project PyMC.


Contents
========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   examples/quick-start
   
   api_reference

Indices
=======

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`

Commit message:

update optimization, examples and misc changes (#77)

docs/index.rst, after:

Kullback-Leibler projections for Bayesian model selection
=========================================================

|Tests|
|Coverage|
|Black|
  
.. |Tests| image:: https://github.com/bambinos/kulprit/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg
    :target: https://github.com/bambinos/kulprit

.. |Coverage| image:: https://codecov.io/gh/bambinos/kulprit/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=SLJIK2O4C5 
    :target: https://codecov.io/gh/bambinos/kulprit

.. |Black| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg
    :target: https://github.com/ambv/black

Variable selection refers to the process of identifying the most relevant variables in a model from a larger set of predictors. When performing this process we usually assume that variables contribute unevenly to
the outcome and we want to identify the most important ones. Sometimes we also care about the order in which variables are included in the model.

Besides this documentation, we also recommend you to read `Advances in projection predictive inference <https://projecteuclid.org/journals/statistical-science/volume-40/issue-1/Advances-in-Projection-Predictive-Inference/10.1214/24-STS949.full>`_. The paper is not about Kulprit, but introduces the theory behind Kulprit and also provides some practical advice. You may also find this `guide <https://avehtari.github.io/modelselection/CV-FAQ.html>`_
on Cross-Validation and model selection is useful. A quick guide to variable selection and related tools in the PyMC ecosystem can be found `here <https://arviz-devs.github.io/Exploratory-Analysis-of-Bayesian-Models/Chapters/Variable_selection.html>`_

Kulprit is under active development so use it with care. If you find any bugs or have any feature requests, please open an `issue <https://github.com/bambinos/kulprit/issues>`_ on GitHub.


Installation
============

Kulprit requires a working Python interpreter (3.10+). We recommend installing Python and key numerical libraries using the `Anaconda Distribution <https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual#Downloads>`_, which has one-click installers available on all major platforms.

Assuming a standard Python environment is installed on your machine (including pip), Kulprit itself can be installed in one line using pip:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install kulprit


By default Kulprit performs a forward search, if you want to use Lasso (L1 search) you need to install `scikit-learn` package. You can install it using pip:

.. code-block:: bash
    
    pip install kulprit[lasso]

Alternatively, if you want the bleeding edge version of the package you can install it from GitHub:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install git+https://github.com/bambinos/kulprit.git


Dependencies
============

Kulprit is tested on Python 3.10+. Dependencies are listed in `pyproject.toml` and should all be installed by the Kulprit installer; no further action should be required.


Contributing
============

We welcome contributions from interested individuals or groups!
For information about contributing to Kulprit check out our instructions, policies, and guidelines `here <https://github.com/bambinos/kulprit/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md>`_.


Contributors
============

See the `GitHub contributor page <https://github.com/bambinos/kulprit/graphs/contributors>`_.


Citation
========

If you find Kulprit useful in your work, please cite the following paper:

.. code-block:: latex

    @article{mclatchie2024,
        author = {Yann McLatchie and S{\"o}lvi R{\"o}gnvaldsson and Frank Weber and Aki Vehtari},
        title = {{Advances in Projection Predictive Inference}},
        volume = {40},
        journal = {Statistical Science},
        number = {1},
        publisher = {Institute of Mathematical Statistics},
        pages = {128 -- 147},
        keywords = {Bayesian model selection, cross-validation, projection predictive inference},
        year = {2025},
        doi = {10.1214/24-STS949},
        URL = {https://doi.org/10.1214/24-STS949}
    }

Donations
============

If you want to support Kulprit financially, you can `make a donation <https://numfocus.org/donate-to-pymc>`_ to our sister project PyMC.


Contents
========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   examples/overview
   
   api_reference

Indices
=======

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
